This month's article will be the first part of a two part
series addressing the Internet.  This month we'll take a
look at what the Internet is and isn't and next month we'll
talk about the resources for AutoCAD users available on the
Internet and how to access them.

First, what is the Internet?  The Internet is a large
network of networks communicating with each other with
TCP/IP.  The Internet was originally established in 1983 and
was sponsered by the Defense Advanced Research Project
Agency (DARPA).

Orginally intended to connect research institutions and
government agencies, the Internet has now grown to encompass
nearly every school and large business in the nation and
many others world wide.   The various connections between
the networks usually takes the form of 56K leased lines and
T1 lines (1Mbps).  Some T3 lines (45Mbps) also exist between
major locations.  The cost of these lines are paid by the
institutions that connect to them.

Another type of network that is often confused with the
Internet is UUCP (Unix to Unix CoPy).  UUCP is a loose
association of systems running UNIX that communicated with
each other with the UUCP protocol.  Many small sites connect
to the Internet through UUCP and really aren't Internet
sites (presently, Autodesk is one such company that falls
into this catagory).  More on UUCP networks later.

Why would a company choose not to connect directly to the
Internet?  Cost and security.  The leased lines to connect
to the Internet can cost upwards of $5,000 per month.  Also,
to ensure site security, firewall machines must be
installed.  Firewall machines are dedicated gateway machines
with special security precautions to protect the rest of the
companies network from crackers.  Because of this, the cost
of equipment and administration of a direct Internet link
can only be justified in the largest companies.

Back to the Internet:  Every site on the Internet must have
a unique id or domain name.  The domain name tells you the
name of a system or location and what type of organization
it is.  For example, Autodesk's domain name is:

autodesk.com

The first part of the domain tells you the name of the
company:  autodesk.  The second part or trailing domain
tells you the type of organization:  com.  Here are the
several most common trailing domains:

com       Usually a company or commercial institution.
edu       An educational instutuion.
gov       A government site.
mil       A military site.
org       Private organizations that don't fit one of the
other domains.  Example:  eff.org for the
               Electronit Frontier Foundation.

But wait a minute.  If Autodesk isn't on the Internet
directly, how can it have a domain name?  For the purposes
of email, sites not on the Internet can use domain names to
have Internet addressed mail sent to them via UUCP from an
Internet host.   More on this later under UUCP.

The proper term for a site's domain name is its Fully
Qualified Domain Name.  It is selected to give a clear
indication of the site and must be registered with the NIC
(Network Information Center) Domain Registar.

Every machine directly on the Internet must have a unique
address called its Internet Number or it IP Address.  An IP
Address is a 32 bit number normally represented as four
numbers or octets joined by periods.  An example of a IP
address is:

200.001.001.001

IP Address are assigned by the NIC to ensure that every
machine on the internet has a unique address.



UUCP network are usually used only for the tranmission of
email and USENET newsfeeds.  Although not needed for UUCP,
most UUCP sites use a Fully Qualified Domain Name and
receive thier mail from a Internet site.  Internet sites
have maps that contain the names of every Fully Qualifed
Domain Name and a routing table of how the mail gets to
site.  In the case of a UUCP site, the maps would list their
Internet Host as the destiniation of the Internet Mail and
that Host would inturn process the mail fom transmission to
the final site through the UUCP protocal.



Copyright (C) 1993 by Mike Sisk
