AutoCAD Release 12 SPARCstation Q & A


Q.  Why doesn't the TAB key allow me to cycle through data
fields in the OpenWindows AutoCAD dialog boxes?

A.  By default, OpenWindows only allows limited keyboard
support in it's dialog boxes (unlike the MS-DOS version of
AutoCAD, the Sun version uses the operating system's native
dialog boxes).  To allow the TAB key to work, add the
following line to your .Xdefault file (located in your home
directory)

     OpenWindows.KeyboardCommands: Full

Pay close attention to capitalization.  Unlike MS-DOS, UNIX
is case sensitive.


Q. Why does clicking with the left mouse button on a
pulldown menu only activate the first command of the
pulldown without causing the menu to pop down?

A.  Since AutoCAD for the SPARCstation uses the dialog boxes
that are native to OpenWindows, the functioning of the mouse
buttons is different than what you would expect if you are
accustomed to MS-DOS AutoCAD.

To pop the menu down you need to right click on the menu
button;  then left click on the command you want to execute.

Page 96 of the Release 12 Sun SPARCstation AutoCAD
Interface, Installation, and Performance Guide goes into
more detail on the functions of the mouse in OpenWindows.


Q.  Why don't the OpenWindows pulldown menus "remember" the
last command I picked like the MS-DOS version of AutoCAD
does?

A.  AutoCAD on the SPARCstation doesn't support that
particular function.



Q.  I've set up plot spooling as per the instructions in the
installation guide, but my plot files remain in the plot
spool directory after plotting and must be deleted manually.
Why?

A.  Specifying AUTOSPOOL as a plot file name tells AutoCAD
to plot to a file in a user specified location, usually
/usr/spool/acad, and execute the command specified by the
ACADPLCMD environment variable.  The example given by
Autodesk in the installation guide is a bare minimum;  you
will almost certainly need to expand upon it for your
installation.

For the sake of example, let's say you wish to plot your
files on a plotter called localplot (this is defined in the
/etc/printcap file).  Your statement defining ACADPLCMD
might look like this:

     setenv ACADPLCMD "lpr -Plocalplot -r -s %s"

Here's why:

The SPARCstation uses a command called lpr to print files.
Like many UNIX commands, lpr has a whole slew of command
line options that could fill up a whole article.  In this
case we are concerned with three of them:  -P, -r and -s.

-P tells lpr which printer to use.  As we said, the printer
name in our example is localplot.  Note that there is no
space between -P and the printer name!  This small detail
can cause big headaches.

-r is the solution to the question here - it tells lpr to
delete each file after it has been sent to the plotter.

-s is not necessary, but it's a good option to know about.
When you print a file, a copy of it is created in the plot
spool directory.  If you run out of disk space for the plot
spool directory, you can't print anymore.  The -s option
causes the copy of the file in the plot spool directory to
be just a link, instead of an actual copy of the file.  That
means you can keep on printing without using up extra disk
space.  This can be particularly useful if your printers and
plotters go offline a lot;  all those plots waiting for the
plotter to come back can eat up a huge amount of disk space.

The %s is an option to AutoCAD, not to lpr.  When AutoCAD
sees the %s, it replaces the %s with the name of the plot
file before it passes the rest of the string to the
operating system for execution.


Q. When  trying to start up AutoCAD I get the following
error:

     Xlib:  connection to ":0.0" refused by server
     Xlib:  Client is not authorized to connect to server
     XView error: Cannot open connection to window server:
:0.0 (Server package)
     Xlib:  connection to ":0.0" refused by server
     Xlib:  Client is not authorized to connect to server
     XView error: Cannot open connection to window server:
:0.0 (Server package)
     rcacadd is not an ADI driver.


     FATAL ERROR:  No display driver



     FATAL ERROR:  No display driver

A.  This error occurs when one user is running OpenWindows
and a different user attempts to run AutoCAD on the same
workstation.  This usually happens when a user logs in, su's
to superuser, and then tries to start AutoCAD while he/she
is still superuser.  The solution is to just exit out of
superuser with exit or use the suspend command to return to
the original user id.


Q.  How can I get my MS-DOS AutoCAD drawings to my new
SPARCstation and do I need to use any conversion (like DXF)?

A.  Since Release 9, all AutoCAD versions have been able to
read and write each other's drawing files directly with no
conversion needed.  Physically getting the file onto the
SPARCstation, however, can be more difficult.

The most common method of transferring files between
platforms is via a network.  Most CAD shops that have a mix
of Suns and PCs use an Ethernet network with the Suns as
severs and the PCs running Sun's PC-NFS software.  In this
environment, transferring files is as easy as copying from
one machine to another with the MS-DOS copy command.  Ask
your site system administrator for specific details on how
to do this at your site.

If you don't have a network, though, all is not lost.  Sun
machines that have a 3 1/2" floppy drive (IPC, IPX, SPARC
II, and others) will directly read and write a MS-DOS
formatted diskette.  First, copy the drawing file to a 3
1/2" floppy disk on the MS-DOS machine.  Now, insert the MS-
DOS floppy into the Sun's floppy drive.  To access the MS-
DOS floppy, you must first mount the disk onto your system.
The command to use in most installations is:

     mount /pcfs

Note that you must be superuser to use the mount command, so
you might need to have your system administrator do this for
you.  After the floppy is mounted, you can read and write it
using standard UNIX commands.  When you are finished using
the floppy, execute umount /pcfs (again, this may only be
done by the superuser) and then execute eject, which will
cause the floppy to be ejected from the drive.


Q.  I've just set up a new SPARCstation and installed
AutoCAD.  When I try to start AutoCAD I get an error
message:

     Unable to obtain shared memory.
     Unable to obtain semaphores.

A.  Many of the features of AutoCAD Release 12 use ADS, and
ADS requires something called inter-process communication
(IPC) to be configured in the system kernel.  The system
kernel is the heart of the UNIX operating system, and some
Sun systems ship with IPC disabled.  Enabling IPC requires a
reconfiguration and recompile of the kernel and a reboot.

WARNING:  IT IS STRONGLY RECOMMENDED THAT KERNEL
RECONFIGURATION BE DONE BY YOUR DEALER OR A SUN SUPPORT
ENGINEER.  IF YOUR KERNEL IS NOT CONFIGURED CORRECTLY YOU
MAY CRASH YOUR ENTIRE NETWORK AND NOT BE ABLE TO BOOT YOUR
MACHINE WITHOUT RELOADING YOUR OPERATING SYSTEM SOFTWARE.

Because of the danger involved in re configuring the system
kernel, Autodesk omitted the steps needed to reconfigure the
kernel in the Release 12 documentation.  The Release 11 Sun
SPARCstation guide does document the procedure.

All these steps require you to be logged in as superuser and
have knowledge of a system editor.

1.  As superuser, move to the directory containing the
kernel configuration file.  The default for a SPARCstation
is /usr/sys/sun4c/conf.

     cd /usr/sys/sun4c/conf

2.  Create a copy of the GENERIC_SMALL file and name it
GENERIC_IPC.  Use chmod to modify the permissions of the
file to allow editing.  NOTE:  This assumes a new system
that is using the default kernel.  If your system has
special hardware that requires kernel reconfiguration,
GENERIC_SMALL *may* not be the correct file to use.  See
your SUN dealer (or the person who configured your existing
kernel, if it wasn't your dealer).

     cp GENERIC_SMALL GENERIC_IPC
     chmod +w GENERIC_IPC

3.  Edit GENERIC_IPC with a system editor such as vi.

     vi GENERIC_IPC

4.  Find and change the identification line in the file.

     ident "GENERIC_SMALL"

    Change the line above to:

     ident "GENERIC_IPC"

5.  Find and change the three lines that enable IPC.

     #options IPCMESSAGE      # System V IPC message
facility
     #options IPCSEMAPHORE    # System V IPC semaphore
facility
     #options IPCSHMEM        # System V IPC shared-memory
facility

The number sign (#) at the beginning of a line means it is
commented out, or inactive.  Remove the # from the beginning
of these lines.

     options IPCMESSAGE       # System V IPC message
facility
     options IPCSEMAPHORE     # System V IPC semaphore
facility
     options IPCSHMEM         # System V IPC shared-memory
facility

6.  If you plan on supporting diskless clients, you might
need to add the following lines under the section of the
configuration file dealing with streams NIT support:

     pseudo-device snit       # streams NIT
     pseudo-device pf              # packet filter
     pseudo-device nbuf       # NIT buffering module

7.  Save the edited file and exit the editor.

8.  Use config and make to create and install the new
kernel.  This assumes that config is in the /etc directory
and make is in the path.

     /etc/config GENERIC_IPC
     cd ../GENERIC_IPC
     make

WARNING:  If any error messages are generated during config
or make, stop the procedure and contact your system
administrator or your SUN dealer.

9.  Rename the current kernel /vmunix to /vmunix.old and
copy the new kernel to the root directory.

     mv /vmunix /vmunix.old
     cp vmunix /vmunix

10.  Reboot the system.

     /etc/reboot

The reboot command will reboot the system with the new
vmunix kernel.  You should see GENERIC_IPC as the name of
the new kernel during boot.

If the system won't boot, re-boot the system from your SunOS
CD-ROM distribution disk, copy the old kernel back to
/vmunix, and try again!  See the Sun System Installation
Guide for instructions on booting from CD-ROM.

After you are absolutely sure the new kernel is working
correctly, delete the old one (/vmunix.old) as they take up
quite a bit of disk space.


Copyright (C) 1993 by Mike Sisk
